---
layout: post
title: "The Daintree Rainforest Observatory"
author: "Abbey Yatsko"
categories: 
tags: 
image: DRO.jpeg
---

This summer I have the good fortune to join a National Science Foundation (NSF) Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program in Queensland, Australia headed by Amy Zanne of George Washington University. In this project, our research questions look to explore the dynamics of nutrient circulation within forest systems, particularly carbon dioxide and methane. So far, we have been studying the decomposition components of forested lands by measuring gas flux of decaying woody plant material. This research has prominent implications in atmospheric modelling, as it adds more accurate and key representative dimensions to Global Climate Models (GCMs). This assists in providing realistic mathematical interpretations of forests and overall more reliable future predictions of a world with different degrees of climate change. 

Few dimensions are considered in current forest carbon models, which in turn does not account for full complexity. In an elementary way, forests can be thought of as carbon sinks, as vegetation of the understory all the way up to the canopy takes up carbon dioxide through the process of photosynthesis. However, this interaction is not the only pathway of such ecosystems – decomposition of plant biomass contrasts vegetative growth and occurs simultaneously as forest development persists. The important considerations lie in process of respiration, as this has equal associations of carbon dioxide being released into the same atmosphere from where it was removed by photosynthetic means. 

In our project, we are looking to better understand the relative roles of fungi and termites in the decomposition gas fluxes of multiple field sites and climate conditions within Queensland. These sites are set along a precipitation gradient to account for the effect of varied rainfall and environmental accommodation of different species. The Daintree Rainforest represents the most extreme rainfall site on the precipitation gradient, recording 4,500 - 5,500 ml of rainfall a year, and this is the first field site that I have conducted research it with the REU team. 
