---
layout: post
title: "The top 3 sustainability 'things' I miss while travelling"
author: "Abbey Yatsko"
categories: sample
tags: [sample]
image: travel.jpeg
---

It is a tricky thing to be on the road and keep up with the sustainability habits you develop while rooted in your permanent setting. Travelling is always at the top of my experience priority list, but it certainly comes with some environmental downsides. Stepping away from the normalcy of my collegetown home has encouraged me to ponder the ways that travel challenges my low-impact living. So, without any further ado, these are the top 3 things that, in their absence, my heart has grown fonder of during my Australian travels. My hope is that as my adventures continue, I will be able to write an additional list of substitutes I have been able to track down to take the place of each travel grievance that I have compiled below.

1.     My CO+OP 

PIC

Ithaca’s GreenStar food CO+OP is one of the best things to happen to humanity (in my humble opinion). The shop local, bulk food mentality provides a one-stop-shop for all things plastic and package free. It is so refreshing to be able to bring your own jars to replenish stocks of rice, oats, and nuts - just to name a few basics - because at the co-op anything is really possible. 

Last week our research team was working quite remotely, and I was reminded of how environmentally un-friendly camping diets can be. While we were able to make a stop at the fresh and local fruit and veg market in Cairns before heading off to the rainforest and savanna field sites, there were still many packaged items that we packed away into the esky (Australian lingo for cooler!). From pre-packaged Pad Thai mixes to crackers and crisps, these foods are certainly more convenient when access to refrigeration and conventional cooking stoves is limited – yet this quality of convenience does not save them from their inevitable plastic waste contribution. 

2.    My bread machine  

PIC

Last year I left an internship with Greenpeace with a new perspective on personal sustainability and zero-waste living. I had been working on a plastics campaign, and my research through this experience gave me significant insight from which the beginnings of my low-impact lifestyle sprouted from. As mentioned before, places like bulk food stores facilitate reductions in packaging waste, but one conundrum I always faced was seeking out the most sustainable way to feed my passion for all things bread-related.

The best part about bread is that it fuels my toast addition – toast with avocado and egg, toast with tasty new jams, toast with peanut butter and banana – no matter what, you need bread to make these exquisite combinations happen! My qualms of plastic-wrapped bread were sorted out last Christmas when Santa got creative and gifted me a bread machine. Last semester, I was able to (almost) completely rid plastic from my morning toast (the only issue was the plastic bag of bread yeast that came pre-packaged, but I note that it has been many months and the bag has yet to be emptied). In my travels we have been purchasing loaves of bread from the grocery store, but I cringe to see the bread wrapped in plastic when I know I have figured out a way to avoid this source of pollution. 

3.    Non-diesel fuelled vehicles 

PIC

Our field work requires a good portion of travel that is off roads, and we depend upon a vehicle that has enough ‘oompf’ to cross a river or traverse the rocky spans of Australian savanna. So, as a result we drive around in a diesel-fuelled Hilux pickup truck that, in comparison, has a much larger carbon footprint than that of my mother’s docile Prius.

Personal vehicle transportation comprises up to one third of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions in one form or another, and at school I have found that utilizing public transport is an effective way to cut back on your contribution to this staggering statistic. However, it is a reality that some activities are unable to be achieved while relying on public transportation, and in a lot of ways the travel that I take part in makes me feel guilty. From using the diesel truck to reach field sites to flying halfway across the world to take part in this research, are my claims as a sustainable living blogger even able to hold up?

How do you hit the road and keep your zero-waste habits up to par? Feel free to comment and send in any of your tips or lessons that you have learned along the way. And while you’re at it, subscribe to be in the know :)

 abbey
